when it comes to giving a speech
everyone has their own style their own
flavor but this video is meant to give
you a couple suggestions of how you can
organize your speech especially if
you're struggling and you don't know the
best way to proceed hey everyone my name
is wade patterson and i'm passionate
about impactful communication speeches
toastmasters if this is the kind of
content that you think could be valuable
to you please hit that subscribe button
turn on notifications i would really
appreciate it if you followed my channel
because my goal is to provide a lot of
value through these videos before i get
into the specific tips for organizing a
speech i want to share an idea that i've
shared on many other videos that i've
had on this channel and that is don't
write out your speech word for word
now if you're somebody who is brand new
to speaking this is probably a tempting
thing that you want to have
all of those words written down as a
crutch but the problem with that process
is that we rely on that piece of paper
and what often happens is people hold up
the piece of paper and they read
verbatim what they have written down and
you're taking away so many elements
you're taking away body language you're
taking away vocal variety it's not going
to be a great experience for the
audience the tip i like to give on this
is to
write down your introduction and that
can be word for word but that is
something that you're going to memorize
because great speeches should have great
introductions the rest of the speech the
body as we call it should just have
point form
little words or phrases that jog your
memory what to talk about these
shouldn't be written out word for word
for example if you're talking about your
career as a baseball player perhaps you
have high school baseball as one of the
references maybe there's a funny story
about when you tried to slide into third
and you got tagged out i don't know how
funny of a story that would be i'm just
thinking off the top of my head then you
write sliding into third these are
things that will jog your memory
throughout the speech that you're going
to talk about and then the other thing
you can have written out fully is the
conclusion the intro and the conclusion
are so important you should memorize
both of those pieces but if you have
those written down on a piece of paper
in case you freeze in front of the
audience which often happens either at
the beginning or the end of a speech you
have that written there where you can
subtly check your notes see what you've
written down and then speak to the
audience and deliver with confidence i
sort of alluded to the structure
while giving the example for how you
should write your notes but the way that
works for me or that is the structure to
a lot of my speeches is an introduction
then a story or a series of stories and
then a conclusion this can also be
replaced by an introduction
points to whatever it is that maybe
you're arguing or you're trying to
persuade the audience of something
maybe it's one three or five points that
you have i like odd numbers i don't know
why it is but i feel like they connect
strongly with the audience and then a
conclusion so that should be the
structure and this all starts with a
powerful introduction audiences are
going to judge you on your first few
words as a speaker so if you can capture
their attention if you can intrigue them
with a powerful introduction right from
the get-go you're going to have their
attention you're going to get them if
it's a generic sort of hi everyone my
name is wade patterson and there's a few
things i'm going to talk to you about
today really excited for this
opportunity before i do that a little
bit about myself that is how so many
speeches start but they are not the most
engaging speeches if you can say
something right off the top to hook your
audience that is going to be a powerful
and memorable speech i'm going to give
you an example of this maybe it'll sound
a little bit bizarre but pretend that
the speaker is somebody who used to be
addicted to gambling but who has
overcome that addiction and now they are
telling the audience about their
experience and how they overcame that
addiction
rather than having an introduction like
hey everyone my name is wade and i used
to gamble quite a bit it's a bit of a
problem and and since then i've found
ways to
to get out of that habit
okay that's fine it's kind of giving the
context but i may have already lost some
members of the audience because it
hasn't hooked them instead you could
have something like this for a powerful
introduction so there i was
standing in front of the roulette wheel
i had already put my money down there
was no going back
it was everything i had
everything i had
was uneven
and as the ball bounced around and
landed
on that number
i realized my life would change forever
that kind of introduction is going to be
much more powerful the audience is going
to think what happened did it land on
odd did it land on even how is my life
going to change what is happening here a
powerful introduction that's a little
teaser to what you're going to talk
about is going to grab the audience and
draw them in after you nail that
powerful introduction you're going to
want to have a strong middle or body of
your speech
it depends what you're trying to
accomplish if you're trying to
inform your audience or convince them of
an argument then we're going to call
these different elements points
and earlier i mentioned you want one
three five maybe seven points but that's
probably too many you want the number
that the audience will easily remember
and when they leave your speech they
will have takeaways that they remember
from what you said if the goal is to
entertain your audience you may have a
story in the middle or a series of
stories with a longer intro and a longer
conclusion if your speech is convincing
or
persuading the audience let's use an
example of you want to convince your
audience that social media is harmful
for us for our health
well that's great to just say that but
you need to have points
to your argument that reinforce that
idea if not i could argue right back hey
social media is a great marketing
opportunity it's a great way to stay
connected with people from other
countries where that is not as easy to
do perhaps through email and all of the
tools that social media gives us it
gives people without an audience an
opportunity to tap in to a greater
number of people what's the argument
that it's bad
well now you as the speaker because your
audience may already have these
positives in their head you have to
convince them so maybe one of your
points or your first points is the
effect it has on teenagers mental health
the fact that they are constantly
comparing themselves to a highlight reel
of other people's lives and it's not a
fair comparison it's a filtered reality
that they're looking through
that's a pretty strong argument that
could be argument number one and then
maybe example number two points to the
average amount of time wasted in a day
by the average person checking social
media and so it's saying you're wasting
the time in your life that you could be
doing something productive and then
maybe you have another point in another
point all of these are building your
case for whatever it is that you're
trying to say or inform to your audience
going back to the original tip your
notes should simply be subtle phrases or
sentences to jog your memory on the
teenager example you could simply write
the words teenager mental health and
that will jog your memory to talk about
those sorts of things now if there are
key statistics that you want to include
maybe jot those down but don't write
everything down word for word throughout
the body of your speech on the other
example if you're trying to entertain
the audience
which is something that we see commonly
in weddings wedding speeches like a best
man speech or something along those
lines you want your introduction same
thing to capture the audience's
attention but maybe the middle is a
story so if i'm talking about the groom
in a wedding and i am the best man that
introduction should capture the
audience's attention and then maybe i
tell a funny story that's not too much
of a roast you don't want to throw the
groom under the bus but something that
gets some laughter but then toward the
end of the speech talks about all of his
positive qualities why he's my best
friend in the world and then it wraps up
to a nice conclusion speaking of
conclusions my favorite conclusions are
ones that come full circle so what does
that mean
well we remember that our strong
introduction is a sentence or an example
of something that's going to draw the
audience in something that's powerful
that's a little teaser for the speech
so considering this going back to my
example of gambling and the gambling
addict who is staring at the roulette
wheel
the conclusion while all of the points
of the speech have reinforced the idea
the conclusion is the most powerful when
it can come back and reference
what happened in the introduction using
this gambling example i said that if it
landed on the wrong number that i would
lose all of my money perhaps the
conclusion
says that the number did land on what i
didn't have my money placed on however
that was the best thing that happened to
me
because i had to hit rock bottom before
i could reinforce my life and get to a
better spot for the social media example
if you had a powerful statement as your
introduction again you're going to touch
on that in the conclusion remind the
audience and it feels like the speech
all came together it's sort of like
wrapping a bow on it i hope that this
video on how to organize your speech was
helpful please leave a comment below if
there's anything i didn't answer that
you were looking for or if you enjoyed
the video let me know that that's always
a great thing to see is those positive
comments please subscribe to my channel
and i hope you have an awesome day